README.md, before:

# UR-Digital-Twin

A Unity-based digital twin of the **UR10** manipulator, developed to support testing and refinement of a touchscreen teleoperation interface. The project integrates Unity, ROS, inverse kinematics, and custom UI controls tailored for capacitive displays.

---

## 📌 Overview

This repository includes five key components:

1. **Simulating the UR10 Manipulator in Unity**  
2. **Controlling the Manipulator through Unity Scripts**  
3. **ROS–Unity Communication Setup**  
4. **Controlling the Robot via ROS**  
5. **Touchscreen UI Adjustments**

---

## 1. Simulating the UR10 Manipulator

1. Open Unity → **Package Manager** → **My Assets** → **+ (Add package from Git URL)**  
Enter:  https://github.com/Preliy/Flange.git#upm


2. Import robot samples via:  
**Samples → Flange → Demo**

3. Remove all robots except **UR10**, add a table, adjust the camera angle, and apply a floor texture.

More information on the Flange package:  
https://github.com/Preliy/Flange

---

## 2. Controlling the Manipulator in Unity

Create a folder called `Scripts` inside the `Assets` directory and add the two scripts from this repository:

### **RobotPositionController.cs**
- Accepts Cartesian target coordinates for the end effector.  
- Computes joint angles via inverse kinematics and moves the manipulator accordingly.

### **KeyboardRobotTester.cs**
- Allows manual testing of the manipulator with keyboard controls:  
- **W/A/S/D** → planar movement  
- **Q/E** → vertical movement  
- Includes adjustable end-effector speed and workspace boundaries.

---

## 3. ROS–Unity Communication

Follow the documentation at:  
https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ROS-TCP-Connector

1. Add the package in Unity using:
   https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ROS-TCP-Connector.git?path=/com.unity.robotics.ros-tcp-connector

2. Complete the setup steps described in:  
https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/Unity-Robotics-Hub/blob/main/tutorials/ros_unity_integration/setup.md

---
 
## 4. Controlling the Robot via ROS

---

## 5. Touchscreen UI Adjustments

Commit message:

Update README with ROS2 IP address instructions
Added instructions for finding IP address and configuring ROS2 settings.

README.md, after:

# UR-Digital-Twin

A Unity-based digital twin of the **UR10** manipulator, developed to support testing and refinement of a touchscreen teleoperation interface. The project integrates Unity, ROS, inverse kinematics, and custom UI controls tailored for capacitive displays.

---

## 📌 Overview

This repository includes five key components:

1. **Simulating the UR10 Manipulator in Unity**  
2. **Controlling the Manipulator through Unity Scripts**  
3. **ROS–Unity Communication Setup**  
4. **Controlling the Robot via ROS**  
5. **Touchscreen UI Adjustments**

---

## 1. Simulating the UR10 Manipulator

1. Open Unity → **Package Manager** → **My Assets** → **+ (Add package from Git URL)**  
Enter:  https://github.com/Preliy/Flange.git#upm


2. Import robot samples via:  
**Samples → Flange → Demo**

3. Remove all robots except **UR10**, add a table, adjust the camera angle, and apply a floor texture.

More information on the Flange package:  
https://github.com/Preliy/Flange

---

## 2. Controlling the Manipulator in Unity

Create a folder called `Scripts` inside the `Assets` directory and add the two scripts from this repository:

### **RobotPositionController.cs**
- Accepts Cartesian target coordinates for the end effector.  
- Computes joint angles via inverse kinematics and moves the manipulator accordingly.

### **KeyboardRobotTester.cs**
- Allows manual testing of the manipulator with keyboard controls:  
- **W/A/S/D** → planar movement  
- **Q/E** → vertical movement  
- Includes adjustable end-effector speed and workspace boundaries.

---

## 3. ROS–Unity Communication

Follow the documentation at:  
https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ROS-TCP-Connector

1. Add the package in Unity using:
   https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ROS-TCP-Connector.git?path=/com.unity.robotics.ros-tcp-connector

2. Complete the setup steps described in:  
https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/Unity-Robotics-Hub/blob/main/tutorials/ros_unity_integration/setup.md

3. Run **hostname -I** to learn your IP adress and use it for the following (Use your IP address)
   **ros2 run ros_tcp_endpoint default_server_endpoint --ros-args -p ROS_IP:=<your IP address> -p ROS_TCP_PORT:=11000**

4. ROS2, IP address and port number should match in Unity as well. If all works you will see blue bilateral arrows on left top corner of game screen with your ROS2 IP displayed.

---
 
## 4. Controlling the Robot via ROS

---

## 5. Touchscreen UI Adjustments
